Write 1 paragraph every day to get a book in a year
Create app with 2 pages (1 page for email, 1 page for read and write your testimony)

A tale of faith 

	What is faith? Faith occurs in several different ways. When a manager sees an employee with potential,
the manager trusts that person to do a good job. When a child trusts a parent to take care 
of them, the child puts his faith in that parent. So then is faith trust? Faith is simply a complete trust or 
confidence in someone or something. Knowledge of God in the face of hard times and putting faith
in Him are very different. People can say they know about God, or they believe in a God, but putting 
trust in God is not easy. Faith consists of Belief, to accept something is true, and accept a consent to recieve, according to the Oxford Dictionary.
Having faith doesn't mean we lose self-confidence, it just means we rely on God for our confidence and our identity in God.

	God says that we are created in His image. Is his image a physical image? Why didn't he make the animals in his image?
What makes us different from the animals? At first I was unsure,
but that wouldn't be possible as people have different genes that make them look different. The similarity would
have to be in the mind. But our mind is nothing compared to the ominous mind of God. So where does the similarity lie?
Possibly in choice. Humans have the will to make their own choices in the world. Humans can also tell the difference between
right and wrong, especially after a certain age. Does that make babies made in God's image? It seems possible that the animals are not
sinful, but they are living in a sinful world where bad things happen. In addition it is because we 
are in an imperfect world that we go through this life with torment. That type of explaination would make sense of all the chaos and evil around us.
Does that impact our choices?: depends. But if God is real, and 
God loves us, and he has given choice, we are free to choose faith, and choose love. 
I found two quotes from the Bible: Hebrews 11:6 "And without faith it is impossible to please God, because anyone who comes to him must
 believe that he exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him."
and John 3:16 "For God loved the world so much that he gave his only Son, so that everyone who believes in him may not die but have eternal life. 
For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in 
him shall not perish but have eternal life."

	I have a very hard time writing because I am far stronger in my left brain. Which leaves out the fact
that my right brain is not very creative. In school, I always had a hard time concentrating and thinking critically.
So writing this has been very hard for me in school and now. But the truth is, life has been far harder than writing any book or reading anything in school.
If anybody is looking for a story right now about a hero and a villian, this is no such story.
In fact, this story is more about people's choices and about God's grace. Jesus died for us and gave us salvation. God created
us as human beings with a choice of our own. Nobody in the book is a victim, hero, or a villian,
we all have choices and we all live by the rules of the world, but we don't have to belong to the 
world. In fact, we will have desires to gain wealth, power, beauty and other things for ourselves, or to have love in our lives, which are all
valid and honestly good things to have, so long as they don't surpass our need for faith.
The choice to love truly with agape love (unconditional love) today sets us free from the pressures of the world.
In retrospect, if my family and I hadn't experienced the life we had, I wouldn't be able to write
about experiences that I have seen, or gain the knowledge that I have gained in life. I wouldn't have the opportunity to
get married with a choice to consciously choose to love my spouse. And I don't regret it.

	Everyone has faced pain once or twice in their life. Physical pain, emotional pain, or a combination of both.
Pain is defined as suffering or discomfort caused by illness or injury, according to Oxford dictionary on Google.
In the past, humanity had a harder time treating illnesses or injuries. Less medication, less treatments, etc. Nowadays, we have vaccines to prevent disease,
doctors who are well trained, and medication that can alleviate pain and cure certain diseases or viruses. While things do look a lot better for us,
for some of us, life is still hard due to unforseen circumstances. My father, Dennis, had a very hard life growing up. Born to a mother that
had Paranoid Schitzophrenia, basically very mentally ill, near to Detroit Michigan in the 1960s. He had four siblings, of which he was the oldest, and a father that was often at work or 
inattentive, while his mother often supervised the children. When she wasn't neglecting them. Years later, after the parents were threatened to have their children taken away,
His mother tried to kill all four of her children, by placing one into a bathtub and trying to drown her. She then beat the others and smashed their heads into the floor. She locked them into a closet but
was caught. When caught, all four of her children were taken away from her and placed into the foster care system.

	Nobody could know except her what she had felt that day. Maybe it was a loss of control, the loss of her children. 
Maybe somewhere in her heart she had loved them, and wanted what was best for them, but the desire to keep them close outweighed any amount of agape love
for the children. Or perhaps, it was the her own pride that kept her from going and asking for help. Whatever the answer was, she didn't know it at the time, but her actions had 
caused a chain of events to happen that would hurt others all around her. All four of her children were placed into the foster care system. In the United States, this didn't sound so 
bad... except that they had been in a poorer area around Michigan, close to Detroit, one of the more dangerous cities in the United States.	
My father was the oldest child, but he had been powerless to choose which home he wanted to go to, he just had the option to stay in the home he was placed in. He was placed into the
care of a social worker, who would aid him in going to the places and seeing if he liked the home he was placed into. 

	Foster care in America is when a person takes care of children who are given to adoption. Often this can be because a parent cannot take care of their own child, or will
not take care of their child So they will give them to a pair of foster care parents (or even a single parent), who will gain a small amount of money for taking care of that child.
However, many foster care children are neglected by their parents, because people who do foster care often like the idea of the money. 
Sometimes foster care children, if they are very young, will feel at home with their parents, but some will wonder why their biological parents didn't want them or care for them. 
And sometimes, the parents would neglect the group of children in their homes.
My father said he couldn't remember much about the foster care homes, but that they were awful. Abuse happened to multiple children over the years, and sometimes, the children would abuse the other children.
A girl was raped by two older children in one house. My father said that a boy told him he would be killed with a shotgun if he ever told anyone anything.
"To an 8 year old kid, being told [that] is like a death sentence." Also, during the 1970s phones and the internet wasn't as feasible to use as now, so people
usually used landlines (which had been used generally by parents). In my father, a hope began to fester, that he would somehow make it out of there alive, but he would never tell anyone until years
later. In another home, the children were treated as dogs, and had to eat from bowls. He went to multiple homes in Michigan for the next few years. He was
eventually abused in the homes of people around the area, and developed a form of OCD, germophobia and fear of cracks, that would trouble him for most of his life.
Life wasn't all bad for him. He got adopted to a loving family in Wayne County, Michigan, and spent a lot of his older years there. But he made a lot of mistakes in his journey, and never felt truly at home with anyone.
It seemed the foster care system had good intentions. Giving children better homes than their previous home sounded very kind. But it wasn't. 
Several things today seem to start as good ideas. For example, loving who you choose is a good idea. But if you love someone who wants to kill you,
it's probably the best thing not to stay in that relationship. 

	To this day, nobody involved with the incidents that took place during that time ever faced a trial by the human court system fairly for what happened to him there. 
My father told me that his number one goal was to survive, not to worry about the superficial world as it was.
It wasn't bad to worry about life, or to have a goal, but during his life, he said it was hard to focus on 
anything about survival. When we asked him about revenge, he said that it wouldn't do him any good to seek revenge or to go out looking for justice.
Too many times, during our lives we try to play superheroes, but usually end up vigilantes that end up hurting themselves.
To start, he couldn't remeber much about the places, or the names of the people who hurt him. And to be honest, he said it was 
in some ways, better that way. After all, he had time to focus on the family who he had been given. An American (German and Italian) family with a husband, wife, and dogs,
and a stable home in Macomb County, Michigan.

	His adoptive parents were caring. They had been one of the nicer homes, and he decided to stay with them after
they had adopted him. When he first came into their home, and walked into the bedroom there had been
gift upon gifts in a pile. He got presents on the bed and his own room, and everyone treated him like family, well, most
of the time. Sometimes his father got drunk, and he had to avoid their father's anger. He and his sister (also adopted at a younger age), went to a local school in the area. They had friends to go places with, and things to do.
Each year they would go to the cottage for the weekends and come back to Wayne County during the days.
Most days, though a lot better than before, also had chores, but the family also had a few dogs as well. The mother Roberta, and father James, took care of their children. Sometimes, they went to 
their parents cottage nearby the Great Lakes. He decided he also liked engineering as a young man. So he learned how to program at the age of 12, and started taking apart and putting together devices. But that wasn't
the end to his troubles. He also had trouble telling his father things he had done. He once burned through a screen door, and too terrified to tell his parents anything, he ran away, and his sister as well, for 
different reasons. He felt like nobody would ever love him and so he did some of the things he did just to survive. 

	My father married his first wife, an Italian woman called Paula, when they were both just 21. They moved into a condo around the area with the savings inherited from his grandmother. With no
education he got a job and worked for a few years. Then after he became homeless, living with his sister and her dangerous boyfriend (at the time).
He married his second wife, my mother Vina, 5-6 years later in Michigan. Both he and my mother, went around the lakes, and had fun together in their first days.
Vina was from a merchant (business) family in India, that had raised her well. Growing up, she didn't have much things, but she had 7 siblings, and parents who loved her. Her parents were Indian,
also traditional, but they did work hard for their children. My mother was the only one who had come to America through a marriage, but ended up divorced due to circumstances out of her control,
and the man ended up leaving her. 
Seduced by the thought of the American Dream, my mother put her heart into working, though in the university, she wanted a better life for herself. She thought that America had more freedoms
than India had, where women could make money, and do things for themselves like marry who they love. 
Both my mother and my father lived in Michigan during that time. The new family was Christian, the mother worked at a bakery, and his father was in insurance. His father's father had died at a young age, and his father had a very traditional
view on life. His father told him to take care of his wife when he married her. They both also went to Wayne State, a University, in Michigan, later getting his degree in Electrical Engineering.
He then got a job in Arizona, and then California. With California we lived with my mother. She also had mental illnesses. They ended up getting 
badly separated in California. He lives in a 1 bedroom apartment with my brother and I for the last few years, because California has become very expensive.

	Imagine a messy car accident on the side of a highway. Two cars, engines, and parts thrown everywhere, nobody is dead but there are injuries. 
And worse the stream of blood from wounds that may not sometimes heal, or may take a while to heal. What nobody tends to realize is the physical pain, though can hurt more at the time, 
lasts for a shorter amount of time than mental pain. Divorce is referred to the messy and painful end of a marriage. Though not as painful as a car accident 
it does leave an impact. Separation refers to two people being separated (often physically). Separation can also leave an impact.
 My father was divorced once and separated once. He, my brother and I lived in a 1  bedroom apartment and had a hard time paying for bills due to the second separation. 
My father also taught me that happiness comes from choices we make to be happy. He knew that he wasn't perfect and makes mistakes too in life, like sometimes not listening 
to his wife. The key to a good marriage is communication, trust in God, and the choice to stay with each other. It's not about the feeling if being in love. 
Both his wives refused to listen, and instead used him as a means to an end. As a person we aren't defined by the divorce. We have choices and free will and the choice to love. 

Doug and his divorce
	Years before my father had a bad divorce, My mother, father and I met a family friend called Doug every sunday through a church outreach. I was in college.
Doug, who was roughly middle aged. Doug was a very nice man, but he was also depressed.
He and his wife had a terrible divorce and she took all three of his children. She also took a lot of spousal support. Ironically, she also had 
very rich parents and so the children had been well taken care of. However, Doug had to live on his own renting a room. And this would be
the rest of his life due to the American family court system. He couldn't change it, unless he was remarried, and to remarry 
requires him to start dating another person, someone who he would try to trust, but trust is difficult. Marriage requires two people to make it work,
and despite the fact that he might try the rest of his life, he couldn't guarantee that his next wife would do the same.
Sometimes Doug said that life wasn't worth living because it felt too painful to not have his family together. I spent time with him, around
a year or so. Doug was a good man, every day we could see him trying to change and be more positive, but then he felt something happen,
and his mood would shift into the depressed man he identified as. Doug warned us then, and it had been like he had known what would happen to my father
years before my father got his divorce.

	I couldn't get Doug out of my head the few months after my parents had been divorced. I had known a relatively abnormal upbringing, but to me life had always 
seemed normal. My parents rarely slept in the same room when we were around, and rarely hugged each other. They had both 
seemed independant. They would tell us in the past that they were in a new era (the 2000s, and the old-fashioned things of the past didn't have to 
be there to be married). But then again, they would always fight. I remember during Elementary and middle school, neither person wanted to take us to school,
and eventually my father would end up taking us both to school right before work. They both took turns giving us lunches, but
more often than not our mother would give us lunches. Hot pockets and peanut butter sandwiches (which is actually tedious to make every single day). 
Sometimes, it was better to go with him then our mother, who 
would sometimes yell at us in the car for getting late. Sometimes, it seemed that they both wanted to escape their realities (my mother through finances, my father through gaming and television,
during the night). They had ambitions and a taste for a different life. Sometimes he neglected my mother, and she had to plan trips
and do things with us on her own. 

	But is every little thing our own fault? We weren't old enough to tell when she criticized him for every little thing he did, whether the punishment justified the crime.
I met a young man once years later who asked about punishment and crime. He said it was too easy for people to get away with sinning if they just said they were saved with God's name.
But then again, who is truly saved. Multiple times, the Bible writes about false teachers, those who teach and their fruits do not match what they 
teach to the people. But it is a struggle sometimes, because it seems like the people who are perpetuating the lies and deceit that everyone can sin freely is foolish. Ironically this 
mindset will also tend to hurt us, because sin isn't without consequences. People who murder will face the wrath of God and often the system (or human law), in which they are usually
either sentenced for life (or multiple years in jail), or even killed. The people who truly repented and believed, would do their best to try to stay away from sin. Paul, Peter, and a few
of the apostales went out preaching the word of God, Jesus and had their own lives taken from them. Despite the fact Paul had killed Christians, he was beaten, stoned, and had other hardships
for his faith. The way to tell a true believer is one that produces fruit, that tries to love God and love others to the best of their ability.
If we focus on the sins of the past, they tend to become dwelling places for our mind to inhabit.

	There's an old saying: we only grow smart enough to know that we don't know anything. 
Faith itself, is not purely based off of knowledge, but rather of choice. Faith itself knows no bounds. My father was able to make his own decisions, even despite his hardships. But he realized that
faith itself was a choice. Happy, why was everyone so happy in the midst of a family tragedy?
My parents said that most people wouldn't help them out. They couldn't count on anyone but themselves.
They had problems with trust. If the world knew those things, that to be content (maybe not happy)
but my father learned over time that being joyful was a choice, to love was a choice. I think in some ways my mother did as well.
Maybe people wouldn't keep running after the things we think feel good (like relationships, lust, drugs, etc.), if 
we knew that contentment was simply our choice to trust. And the best part of this is that we don't have to 
do it alone, but also that requires a choice to trust! 

	As iron sharpens iron, brother sharpens brother. The first time I heard that phrase was watching the cartoon Ninjago. 
It was season 5, and there was an episode where the lego figure of the master tells his disciples
to stick together. And this often occurs in life as well. Marriage, a union of two people, is in our culture, and is everywhere.
People spend a lot of money on weddings. Teamwork also occurs in projects, and even during friendship. 
The teamwork we had learned at Saddleback Community College helped me get a job. At Saddleback we had done multiple projects with other students. 
We also learned leadership. Prior to my new job, I had worked at McDonalds for a few years, where there had been a small hierarchy. Managers had been
able to place people and take care of balancing drawers. Crew members would each take care of their own area. The work at McDonalds had been
tedious, but also a different type of work. Sometimes, at McDonalds we would also have teamwork, but mostly it had been regulated by someone above us.
At the new job, it had been more about working together to get a job done. We also have a saying: 2 minds are better than one. This is also in the Bible, in Ephesians: Two are better than one, and can help each other succeed. In fact, this
mindset is a mindset of teamwork, as old as time. At the new job, teamwork was encouraged, and sometimes, it has been even encouraged
during life.

	By working for something, you will learn the value of it and not take it for granted.
Sometimes just because we had to work for it doesn't mean that it's a bad thing. And sometimes, it shows our character, 
to rise above the hurt, and work like we would work for something greater than ourselves. Each time we try to minimize the work or 
the toil of someone, we are only looking for an easy way out. And most of the time, the easy solution will not work.
Every once in a while, there will be the one person who doesn't commit to do work, and just goes along for the ride!
There had been times where we needed to do extra work, at college and at school. At first, one will feel angry.
When I saw how unfairly the court treatment had treated my father and my mother, I had felt angry. I remember the emotions
riding me like a wave. During that time I couldn't shake off the emotions, because it felt like everything that I had believed,
that the world would right itself eventually, was gone. 

	Terrible things happen every day - in the world. What about bad things in the world, like people, especially children being killed or murdered occurs, it is normal
for people to feel grief and anger. Our first instinct is to attack. A man in West Virginia was beaten for being 
in the wrong place at the wrong time. Two other young men attacked him in the middle of the night, one punching him,
the other kicking him in the head. His name was Ryan Diviney, and (a lot of people who already know this story) he 
ended up going into a vegitative state at the time. He lived in that state for 10 years and his father stayed at home
to take care of him. Where was God during his life? It's hard to look up that story and think, what if that had been me?
Because it's normal, human, to put ourselves into another's shoes. Humans even personalize animals, making them human with human characteristics. 
To start historical evidence: The strongest of which being the disciples testimonies, the fact that Jesus chose
to die for us, and other pieces of evidence strengthen the knowledge of God.

	I met a young boy in school years ago, who tried to do good, in a journalism class, with a few others. This boy cared for his friends, had fun, and knew right from
wrong (and sin from good fruit). He was Jewish. There was so many things that I did, and others had done to him, and to others by accident, and sometimes to be cool
or to make friends and we had done it wrongly. And so many times, this kid lived his life honestly. He wasn't perfect.
Then one day he went out with a friend years later. There had been a search out for him for days. It seemed he had ran away after hanging out with his friend.
They looked for a few weeks. And one day there was rain, and the rain loosened the soil around his body, found in Borrego park. 
As it turns out, the young man thought he was doing the right thing, and he tried to kiss the his friend. He thought it was love. Love, something sincere,
something which feels right. But that form of love, wasn't true love. Because the other young man took out his knife and killed him.
After speaking to the young man's parents online, I joined a group, Blaze it Forward. Blaze's life meant something.
His parents showed true mercy, when they told people to show kind acts, to give his life meaning. That in itself is extremely hard to do. It's easy to say we are ok when
everything seems normal, simple, natural. But when there is actual pain, of something that happens that is unfair, what do we do.
Their example shows the true capability of humanity, when we are hurt, we can still rebound and choose to forgive. And forgiveness is powerful. 
Rather than strive for revenge on the man who killed him, they mourned and channeled their energy into helping the world. 

	To those who have mourned out there these feelings are understandable, but we cannot live with them.
	In my own experience, I felt angry about how life was just so unfair that children could be hurt, and to not deal with it, I tried to escape. Death itself became a reality in my mind.
I don't know how long I have to live. Sometimes, that tends to put pressure on me to live for now, to do everything today so that tomorrow,
I don't have to worry about what I have to do. Carpe diem. With this mindset, I ate what I wanted, went out and made friends, started dating, and lived for the moment.
Emotions then took over, worry about the future gone, I just wanted to feel good, so that everything would be right and ok. Sometimes I cried as if it had been
my last day on earth, and I would never see my loved ones again. The worry about not knowing hits us hard.The sheer unfairness astounded me as a young woman. I just couldn't understand how anyone could justify murder.
It was like there was no choice, we had to accept that we are all going to die. Then comes the worry about purpose in life. 

The one thing I had ever done right in living was
	He told me about his years at the cottage in Michigan. 

I don't fully know the answers to some of my questions, so I decided to seek out answers from people who have experienced various types of situations in 
the world. I had met plenty of homeless in the past, but had never truly seen the need for Christ so great as in these people.
When people say they'd rather be happy than rich, well these people didn't seem to have gotten the memo. A man in a red trenchcoat by the train station at
8 am in the morning at San Clemente. Right by the train, we were so cold. But the cold didn't seem to bother them. I met a guy by the name of SJ. SJ, who had a 
pet dog with him but the dog hadn't been washed for months, and shivered out in the cold beach air. The faith of the dog stood out. She kept watch over him,
she jumped in front of him as she assumed he was going to be hurt as the train flew past us.
The leaders of the bible study worked hard each day, going to
them and ministering to the homeless, and feeding them oatmeal. SJ told me what brought him there, it was a surfboard-making job that eventually went down
the drain with drugs. Perhaps the reason lies between a more complicated context. 

Some people have been brought up using drugs because they have seen peers or adults use drugs around them. Others start doing drugs by choice. 
Eventually they are addicted, and they begin to look to the drug for salvation. How many times have we seen this before? Addictions can come in 
all forms of media, entertainment, a look, money, beauty, fame, etc. Drugs have an added side effect as well, they also make the person crave the drug. 
In most addictions, it is hard for a person to change once it has become a habit. To break down a person's faith is hard, but to create a faith is often harder.
Some people say faith is like a house. It needs to start with a strong foundation, or else it will collapse. I didn't know what a foundation was so 
I googled it up: According to oxford: A foundation is the lowest load bearing part of a building, typically below ground level.

My mom is from Gujarat in India. Going on a plane the first time I ever tried was incredibly scary. My first time, I was 
five years old travelling to a village in India with my mother and brother who was three. The flight itself took around 
16 hours of total time. I remember as the plane first took off and the engines began to roar. There was that moment of initial
shock and paralyzing fear, when the sense of gravity fell away and I felt as if I had become weightless. I don't remember
much after. My mother decided to also take chewing gum along with us to drown out the roar of the plane so we chewed as hard
as we could trusting her as only a child could. She herself trusted the gum, and the plane that she wouldn't die before 
making it to Gujarat. The year was 2002, and planes had become relatively safe to travel on... but that didn't prepare us for the 
other differences between India and Southern California. 
Upon arriving at Bombay, I saw what I had not seen before. There was hundreds of people at the airport and hundreds at
the train station. We were going from Bombay to Surendranagar in Gujarat. The train was so full, 
people had to squeeze in while entering, and a few were almost outside the train. I saw people everywhere, by the sides of the 
road, some in rivers. When we got off the train, I saw people outside in Rickshaws (a 3 wheeled car).

In Surendranagar, the days were always warm, and so were many nights so long ago. 

In Gujarat, the sweltering heat made everything very dry. The village was very colorful, and had multiple markets
on the streets. But when we got to my mother's second family home, there was no running water, no toilet paper,
buttermilk took a mile to walk to and buy, people were on the street everywhere and there was a lot of manure,
often people had a communal wellhouse (This was in 2002). 
The people were happy despite everything. One could still see they had the capacity of faith. They trusted the 
environment and lived with the environment. People are going to be human, even if they don't have the full knowledge of God but they have the capacity for faith.
We are made in God's image.

The Caste system:
I spent three long, harsh months in India, 2 in Surendranagar. Most days, I spent with a young teenager of a servant
(in America a servant is a housemaid) and my brother. Surendranagar was lonely, and we had no shoes, so we often
explored the surrounding areas. With the glass on the street, the young man showed us how to bind our feet with moccassins. 
My mother brought us shoes once she saw our feet, but the others didn't use shoes, so I wanted to be like them. She said
their feet had gotten used to the glass. This glass hadn't just been regular glass, however. This was a sharp type of glass, from broken bottles that had been trampled
over by the masses of people and animals travelling through the area during that time.

The caste system has been a problem in India for a long time. Another interesting example of how humans are made in God's image:
Mahatma Gandhi tried to abolish the caste system when he fought for Indian freedom. The nonviolence movement has been regarded as one 
of the strongest forces during all of time. It produced peace between the British and the Indians. In addition, this movement was later used in 
Martin Luther King Jr's fight for American freedom and the end of segregation. But the caste system remained a problem in India because 
many didn't want to see the end of old traditions.

The Jewish people seemed to have similar traditions that others didn't want to see ended. For example, faith over good works. During the old
testament, people had a lot more traditions to live with. Circumcision, etc. Also the Jewish people had to follow duties, to take
care of their people. In Jewish culture, there was no such thing as buying another home, wives lived with men's families, and sons with
their fathers. Jewish people would take care of their fathers and mothers and would get an inheritance. So wisdom, knowledge, and
sometimes wealth would pass on through the family. In California, before my parents got separated, we lived with my mother. They ended up getting 
badly separated in California. He, even today, lives in a 1 bedroom apartment with my brother and I for the last few years, because California has become very expensive.
And the past year, the pandemic had added even more pressure to his daily duties. I say these things not to make someone feel sorry for anyone, but
rather to inform from experience.

When I was a kid, I remember the hard times were a thing. Sometimes the hard times could be losing a loved one, job loss, illness, poverty as well.
The good times could be a thing as well, including marriages, birthdays, job promotions, completing school, etc. But as a child,
it always seemed normal to have the hard times. It was typically to feel like we didn't have enough (or as much as others had).
My father and mother both had prior marriages, and my mother was unemployed for around 15 years. They had no businesses and few assets.
In fact, they didn't know how to "do business," so my mother always was running around trying to "do business" or get a job.
She tried playing the stock market, and other things in her spare time. And during that time, my father had to pay his ex-wife 
child support. So we spent days cutting coupons, and we couldn't spend too much money on vacations. On top of that my mother felt like it was nearly impossible for
her to get a job, so she felt like the world was against her. In addition, she enrolled us into activities where they had to pay a lot of money a month for,
so that also took away from my dad's income. They were impatient in some ways, and rash because each of their individual pasts had prepared themselves for pain (unconsciously),
and that was all they could see in their future. And as a result they fought a ton. 
In the future, I would end up taking their path in some ways because I acted on that fear of losing everything too fast.
Anyone who says they need something other than God, water, safety, food, shelter, and basic essential needs is lying to themselves.
We didn't know what the future would hold, maybe something better or something worse could be coming. But instead of accepting the future as 
an unknown we made mistakes and that caused our journey. That day I didn't know that mistakes could make us stronger.

Take Peter for instance in the Bible. Peter denied Christ 3 times when Christ was arrested and Peter had been a disciple with
Christ for a long time before. Peter had seen Christ perform miracles, but had still denied knowing Christ at all. What had happened there?
After Christ's resurrection, I think Peter would have wanted to be able to go back in the past and say that he did know
Christ, but he couldn't go back in time then. Peter didn't let that stop him. The disciples had gone through incredible amounts
of pain, but they knew what they were fighting for. And even though they made mistakes, they ended up following Christ still even
after because they realized that their God was stronger than who they were by themselves.

I wasn't a Christian growing up, and I was very unpopular at school during my school years.
There were nights where I felt empty, lonely, and had no way to take it out of my life. I felt sick, had trouble sleeping,
and often worried about death. My brother Riley once asked our parents what happens to people when they die, but got two
different answers. From my mother, it was we go to the earth, and into nothing, and from our father, it was if we chose to believe in Christ,
then we would go to heaven. But our mother always criticized the Church, because the missionaries in the past seemed to take away people's rights,
under the guise of Christianity. We always questioned God, wondered if science proved God didn't exist.
One night, I felt my chest start to ache, and worried if I would die, because I didn't know
where I would go. I decided to say that I believed in Christ and he died for my sins, and Riley decided to keep his 
eyes open for the future.

At Saddleback College, when I first started and decided to take Computer Science, I met the Saddleback Christian Students.
I asked them questions for 3-6 months, and couldn't wrap my head around the evolution/creation issue. However, it wasn't as compelling
as the disciples evidence. I couldn't just choose to follow that God, so I also looked into other cultures and religions to try to find God.
Once I looked into the concept of faith and sin, I finally accepted a loving God, because it seemed the most plausible. But the question of why the world was so 
cruel would always linger in my mind. I chose to follow God at the age of 18. But 6 months later, and I had found that living was a lot harder than I thought.
I also started studying at college, and was rash at the time, so I thought everything should just happen fast. At Saddleback, the kids made fun of my weight,
and I had no friends in the same areas. The Christians were kind, but sometimes, I felt like I just didn't belong.

My mother also left our father for months and would come back every few months. She was on and off for jobs, both local and in the bay area. 
She came back some nights very late and would scream at my father for not caring about her. In some ways, she was jealous of his stability,
and she felt insecure about her own ability to get a job. I followed both of their paths and decided to go into computer programming.
Saddleback College also had a transfer guarantee program to the UCs. It was very easy to get into, and the next year, I was able to transfer into 
one of the UCs close to us. However, the cost of tuition was very high compared to the community colleges, and coupled with the events the future
had, life could only get worse.

At the age of 20, my parents got separated, and I had to go back to work to pay for college. 
I didn't want to blame God or follow God at that time for what had happened to me, but I didn't know whether it was in His plan or not. Sometimes I asked him why had 
all this stuff changed for me at once. Why had I brought my father back that one day after my mother kicked him out? Why did I want everyone to be 
a happy family when they clearly didn't want to get along?
I remember the day I first moved into that apartment in Laguna Hills. I had lived in Laguna Hills for a while then, just moved to a different location.
The soft brownish walls, and slightly soft darker brown floor reminded me of an office. Alltogether, the place consisted of two rooms and a single bathroom.
I was twenty years old and it had been my first year going to a new school, UCI, after transferring from a local community college. It had come out of the 
blue, like lightning. "You, and your dad, and your brother cannot live here anymore. We sold the place. We may get another" From my mother.
 That night was the first night I watched Moana and it was a good movie, but when I got back I said goodbye
to the first family home I had ever known. We were no longer a family. It was never to be, I should have known that she never intended to get another place with my father,
she had told him that many times. The first few days in the new place were terrible. My nights were in torment, wondering where my mother was. My brother and my father took the other
room (the living room) and I in the bedroom. We had to cooperate, as we were now very close to one another. Dread began to creep in.
I still kept in contact with her, and two months later had met my mom. My studies had started at UCI as well, and the classes were different than Saddleback.
It was 2017, and everything seemed like it was going to get better. I went to college fairs, met new friends, and started to go to college fellowships.
I started the Computer Science track, but had trouble getting parking in the apartments because everyone wanted our cars off the street.
So we had to rotate cars every other day. I also started working at the old McDonalds, where I spent time working during high school. At first I was just 
a janitor, but later got added to the service area and then the drive thru. The days were fun there, only because it seemed a lot of work to balance school and the other duties of life.
I hated waiting those days. It felt like everything took forever to move forward. Each day of college they gave us more and more work.

When I first got to UCI my father paid for two of my semesters and my mother paid for one. The next year, she swiped my 
college fund days before I had to pay. I went outside the place in a place of desperation.
 I was so lucky, that year. Student loans kicked in and paid for my education. 

Pauline, my old high school friend, had always been into languages. And over the years, she continued to learn more.
She was always facinated by certain European cultures and areas. I also had shared some of these. During high school,
she liked Iceland, and singers from iceland, then later moved on to the Scandanavian countries like Swedish and Norwegian. During college
it had become more about Polish and later the Baltic countries like Lithuania.
From Pauline, one could learn the value of perseverence. Her family background was Vietnamese but she had taken the time
to go out of her way to find meetups with Europeans. It was a unique choice, but still it took dedication to learn 
some of the hobbies she had learned. She told me it had taken her three years to be able to talk and recite
in languages that were almost foreign for her to understand. We grew up with a primarily English dominated background, with some forms of
Spanish and sometimes a different culture, but she had taken the time to learn something. And she got the results that she had wanted.

During that time, I met a girl called Diana, who had moved from the Bronx to Mission Viejo. She was similar to me, as she had a mother and brother,
and a similar living situation. Diana was a bit different than me, she accepted her situation, and that gave her more peace than
I would have for the next few months. The impatience and my other issues began to cause me to panic.
Ironically, it seemed like no matter how hard I worked life always seemed to have a way of keeping me down.
Some days at McDonalds, I would cry in the restrooms becaues I felt so helpless and hopeless for the future.
Maybe a part of it was my family still continued to call, and they would say that eventually we would be together, but
I knew it hadn't been real. And maybe it was because others would try to show the illusion of a normal life.
Where then was the American Dream? The American dream seemed like a goal to achieve. I had known it since I was a child, since my mother moved from India and my father, of 
Caucasian decscent, decided to live his life, and to raise a family. 

A few months later and I was still stuck in the same apartment, but life had gotten a whole lot different. A coworker asked me on a date. He had brown hair, was a bit heavier,
and much older, but he wore a lot of cologne. And it smelled good. He asked me to go out with him, as friends first, and I thought he was nice and so at first I panicked. Then later,
I agreed. He told me about his past, about the many women he had relationships with, and about the harshness of his mother as well, who had left his father. However, his father had gotten remarried and came to
live in Southern California. He always paid rent, and we spent time playing games together and sometimes staying together at his father's place.

He brought me to my first date. I couldn't sleep the few nights before because I was so excited to be with someone.
We went to Whiting Ranch, and we had lunch at Waba Grill. The first day, he held my hand and that was the first time I 
had ever had a man who held my hand. Within three weeks, he told me about the other women, his exes who had been horrible women.
It was a winter night when we had dinner and he mentioned a woman he had gone out with once before. She was a college aged woman, one who
looked much younger and came from a wealthy family. He told me about her, how she liked classical music and nintendo games,
and how he was broken up when he saw her at work, because she had rejected him. I stayed with
him, but I too began to grow jealous. I started to accuse him of thinking about her whenever he was with me.
In the meantime, I also had college and work, so it was hard to balance my schedule.

He became self-obsessed in some ways, he would eat or take time to do other things when he felt upset. I did these things
as well, especially after my mother had dissappeared. We didn't go to church because we felt angry that the world had hurt us.
He told me about his mother leaving his father, and about being on drugs, and the other things that had happened in his life.
He described the pain the Catholic Church had placed upon his family. And sometimes, it seemed he had been playing a game 
with me.
We celebrated both our birthdays in the spring. Mine was in April, his in May. In addition, he took me to Universal Studio with his
best friend and we saw Hogsmeade from Harry Potter. Hogsmeade was fun, there had been a lights show and butterbeer. I think that day alone, he had spent around $500 alone.
The lights were cool, and rides were fun. People filled the little streets, and everyone seemed to be having a good time. During the two hours it took to 
get there we talked in the car. I learned more about his friend, and her young daughter. 

In May, my college older friend Johan and I went to Crossline Church, a megachurch in the area. I had never experienced a church before,
and something about it seemed to feel like a home I had lost. I met a few people who seemed friendly, including a very shy young man, who we just
exchanged hellos and left, and it had been the same for girls. I didn't take the time to talk to them instead hid in the back row.
One day I took my boyfriend to Crossline Church, a local megachurch. I wasn't a fan of megachurches, but I believed that each church has some
connection to God provided they believe that Christ died for our sins and he will come back and God is a just, loving God.
He didn't feel the same way. He told me that the Church was evil, and he couldn't stand it. In some ways, I could understand his background,
he didn't like the church, and he refused to go there anymore. In the small perspective, I was angry, this had been the first church I had actually
started going to with a young adults program and he didn't want to go there with me.
Ironically that same day, I had met my future husband, but wouldn't realize it for a while.

Sometimes he would say I worried too much and he was correct, but if I worried, then he was too carefree.
Still the days went on. One time, he brought home a switch, and we played Mario party together, that night we laughed and 
talked and sat together in his room with the soft yellow walls and the animals on the walls seemed carefree and happy.
I despised going to school because my boyfriend wasn't there and I had to listen to the teachers. It was very
had to concentrate also due to the fights that I had heard when I was at home, and how I had begun to treat words as 
unimportant. But it was fun to sit together and pretend that we were in different worlds. We would watch TV together,
play games together, watch game lore together, and sometimes even Dexter. We had many different outings where we would 
go see things together, like movies. I would get home very late usually on those days, but it was still fun.

It seemed like a fairy tale, prince and princess, in a time long ago, in a land very far away from here. Somewhere where dreams came true and life 
had a purpose. I kept looking for a purpose in this life.
He told me about the love of his life. Sometimes, it was me. And sometimes it would change to the past, when he reflected
on one of his exes. She was a tiny lady. He said he liked tiny ladies. He liked girls with
cat ears as well, which was quite common in men. I don't fault him for it, but that was the first time in my life where
someone had said the specific phrase, love of their life. I longed for it, to be the love of 
someone's life, and to have them be my love of my life. And I thought that I was going to die without my boyfriend at that
time, because he made me feel special.

He spent way beyond his means though. It wasn't like he didn't want to treat his girlfriend every once in a while, it was more like
eating outside every other day.Another issue that also contributed was his love of a particular game, that would cost a lot of money, which
involved models. The model setswere fun to paint, and I did end up buying a small set myself, and we had times when we painted the models
together. To be fair, everyone has a love of something. Most people call this a hobby. Others, it can morph into an addiction. And at first, I was happy for him, that he 
had something he could have funwith. But some days, he needed it to feel happy. And as he continued to need this to feel happy,
I also had my own needs to feelhappy. I needed constant reassurance that I was loved. So I would keep asking and asking sometimes, to 
the point where I was almost searching hard for love in the wrong places. We felt like we didn't need church, we didn't need anything but the salvation we had and 
the freedom to have fun and live our life. Live our life. The problem was, we didn't know where to find love, and what love was.

Love is the feeling of attachment people have between each other. However, agape love (another form of love) requires a choice to show another person the same love (here 
a verb), or to help, care for, and show mercy to another just like ourselves. And we kept forgetting the action verb of love, because 
we were both too focused on ourselves to get what we wanted in life. I was more ambitious, I wanted to exit college and get a house of my own, and be free of my 
own mother. I also wanted the freedom to buy things that I couldn't while at school. Wheras he focused on living, looking for that feeling of affection from another at the
time. Now after years, he changed his ways, and now is comfortable with himself. But at that time, he was looking for affirmation from someone else other than God.
Months later he had a few sick days that he had taken from work, and I went over to see him. He said his stomach wasn't feeling too well,
and the situation spiraled out of control from there. From then on out, money was tight, he said he had to save more for the doctor,
but ended up having a hard time paying rent and still eating out. I began to criticize him, feeling that he hadn't put enough
effort into going to college, and nitpick at his small flaws. He called me materialistic. We used to go to Taco Bell, and he still wanted to make me happy, so
he took me places. Sometimes, I was upset that I could go to college, because I felt like I wasn't earning any money as well,
and couldn't be fully free of my mother's control. I had never truly had anything that felt like I had belonged (sometimes even in Bible study groups).
I had a decent relationship with him, but we were both immature, and felt angry that he wouldn't go to college. We also had differing 
views about faith, so we ended up breaking up six months later.

After living through the times that I felt like I had to be with my boyfriend, and the breaking of the family,
that (though tough) had not been the end of the world, 
I discovered that I felt sorry for myself. I also discovered ways to stop feeling sorry for myself, not that I was an expert
at it in any regard. My father warned me about this as well. He had OCD for a while, after his mother tried to kill him, and he had been through the foster care system.
I thought it was his right to feel sorry for himself. But he said the more he felt sorry for himself, the more he gave those people
power. Forgiveness isn't about trusting the things and people who hurt us, but about giving ourself back the power to love and not worrying
about the past wrongs. And the more time it took away from him to achieving his own goals.
A method was to look into ourselves in the eyes of the future and the past.
If one could see themselves over the course of time, they would have perspective over a situation. They may look around and 
realize that a small incident was really nothing to worry about.

At school once, a young girl spilled a drink on one of our neighbors. The neighbor started screaming about the drink, because
the drink had damaged her shirt. She began to swear and threaten to sue the other girl. Putting some distance between herself and
the other girl, she began to think she had behaved too harshly. When she began to think critically about the other girl, she
realized that the other girl hadn't come there to harm her at all, and she forgave the other girl. The next day, the girl went to school, and the girl who had spilled
the drink on the other girl came to her and apologized, and asked her if she wanted a new shirt.
And when she did the neighbor girl said sorry as well, and to this day the 
two of them have become friends since.

Although a simple story, I realized I had been feeling sorry for myself over the course of time. I could take a look at the things I had written years before,
about all the people that had hurt me, and all the things that had been done to me. And once I looked at it, even though some people had done it intentionally,
I didn't have to give them the power to hurt me anymore. 
Once I stopped putting so much focus on myself as an individual person, and took a look at the things around me,
I began to see my own mistakes. I had a hard time forgiving the past though, a fact that would continue to haunt
me for many parts of my life (but I would choose to forgive every day). In retrospect forgiving my ex was probably easier to do than forgiving myself for
being so proud and arrogant. I realized I had put pressure on everyone by demanding people care about me. However, I realized that we couldn't trust each other
yet, which was ok. Breaking up at first was very hard. He blocked me and I went to his home. I would look at him on social media.
Eventually, we ended up getting together in the car and kissing, and were together, but sometimes, not really.
His emotions and passions ruled his life, and slowly I was becoming the same way, and I realized that I just couldn't live
feeling sorry for myself any more. But a life of living in the world was hard to leave,
because my emotions felt so strong.
We just couldn't go on if we both weren't going to change, and it was lucky that we weren't married. It was hard to believe 
in God during that time, but I shouldn't have let all of the feelings rule my life too.

That same year I had met the nicest guy at Church. I had known him before I knew my previous boyfriend through a mutual friend and a church service, and 
this young man would listen to everyone, but he had a hard time communicating. That was one of the first times I thought I felt a nudge from destiny, fate
and possibly God. I don't know if it was just a feeling or it was real. I ended up teaching him how to talk by talking to him
about subjects that he liked. This time, I didn't go with feelings, but let my brain overrule my heart, even though my feelings for him and grown.

One time, we went to a bible study together. That day I felt like I was going to explode.
He looked at another girl for one moment, and the jealousy in my heart started to build up again.
We started dating in March the next year. My new boyfriend, as I look back on the past, was probably one of the nicest people I had ever known, because 
I had began to treat him the same way as I had treated my ex. I called him terrible, said his family didn't deserve happiness, because every time I did
something with his family, it seemed like they didn't want me to be there. Seemed, but facts once again differ from feelings, and at the time, I believed
that feelings were fact, when in fact, they were not.
I went to San Diego that year with his grandparents. Especially since he didn't have fighting parents that dragged him into every one of 
their schemes to hide items from each other.

Living with this feelings made fact mentality has made my life hurt in so many different ways. Sometimes, when I would feel like something was wrong,
and when I acted on that feeling, I made my own journey even harder. For example, 

Do two wrongs make a right
During my years with Phil I had both good times and bad times. Sometimes it seemed like we didn't work together at all. I would have times when Phil's family would 
take him on vacations, and because my family wouldn't take me I was bored and sad. At first, I thought it was entitlement. But then I realized sometimes
families do have differences. A popular Christian viewpoint today is that married couples can live together, but boyfriend and girlfriend cannot. That is because
in the Bible, it is a sin to have sex with someone who is unmarried. So taking people of different gender (especially ones who are romantically involved) anywhere 
together would be harder. In addition, families are seen as people who are married to one another. In the Bible this viewpoint is different. Christ called us brothers 
and sisters (children of God). However, there are many verses about obeying our mother and father:
"Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord." Colossians 3:20.
In a clear state of mind, I would have said it wasn't a big deal. Especially with another friend.
But in my paranoid state of mind, where I believed I had to be with a man, I felt like I would die without him. 
I wish I could have gone back and hadn't said the things I was to say, but I could not, and threw a fit with his parents.
Phil called my father there. That day is one I would never like to experience again. 

In addition, having a want is ok, but focusing on it is a terrible problem.
I had to give up the longing for someone else to truly find it. 

I was happy by myself, but a part of me still kept wondering what it would be like to be together. I eventually asked him in February of that year.
Ironically, it seemed like no matter how hard I worked life always seemed to have a way of keeping me down, even after everything I was able to do. I wondered if I had 
sinned against God or had done something wrong. Maybe I was too desperate, but it seemed that life was always hard for me, especially for the amount of effort I had put in.
I could probably even have a million dollars, and I would still be worse off than everyone around me and it made no sense.
It was always like this, since I was a young girl. My mother always compared me to people my own age. 
And she always told me my shortcomings. I was too tall, too lanky, too weird compared to the others. 

What lessons could one learn from that? All I could remember at the time was I felt miserable and would never be good enough, so a deep jealousy grew
in the roots of what once was a good heart. I saw others as richer than me, prettier, smarter, less tired, less ill, less trouble sleeping.
I saw them and they saw me. Does God give us these perceptions of others? I've seen some people in churches who seem to have everything,
cars, houses, and multiple vacations. And others who have close to nothing and I acted in some ways on that fear of losing everything too fast.
I acted impatiently and rashly. Love is patient, love is kind. I knew it in my brain, but my heart, it told me to act rashly sometimes.
It told me I would get what my father had if I didn't act upon the percieved threat. This threat caused me pain and anguish often in life, but it
wasn't a real threat. 

Yet nowadays, in America, we seem to have lost the tradition of family. We don't take care of our families ourselves, often, we will have friends
or families at nursing homes, or elderly villages. For my father, we already knew this was going to be a problem.

The Indian Wedding
In India, the people had a lot of traditions or customs. One such custom that took longer than many of the other customs had been
the custom of marriage. An Indian (and specifically Hindu) weddings could take longer than a week. 
In America, we marry typically in one day. In India, the families would prepare food for the whole 
wedding, and most marriages are arranged. In America, typically the marriage is not arranged, and nor is the choice of spouse. Many 
different aspects are chosen due to astrological signs. 

An arranged wedding consists of a bride and groom, as well as the parents of both bride and groom on both sides of the family,
and their entire family as well. The people get a list of compatible partners, from which the man's or woman's side can
choose from. Sometimes, the parents will want an educated spouse for their partner. It's a different tradition than in America,
where we are free to choose to marry who we love. Speaking of love, the Indians believe that love grows over time, so that
if the two people do meet each other, they can grow to love each other. Some parts of the world are even harsher, with parents or family
members who will kill their own child if their child tries to go with another person (one who they don't specifically desire to be
a part of their family). 

There I found myself, in the middle of the sea of red and color everywhere. They had bought me a suit with a red scarf and pants as well. 
My brother Riley hid behind our mother as the crowd walked past. We saw animals and every type of tent, and an assortment of foods that
one wouldn't see anywhere else in the world. As we looked around us, camels approached, as well as horses. Nobody seemed to know whose wedding
it was just that there was so much around us, and there was a ton of people. Elephants walked in the middle of the street.
Someone said it was because a circus was in town, but in the US we had never seen a circus animal out on the street.
A child asked to ride the large gray beast. It towered over us like it was hungry, and we felt the greatest fear in our lives.
Trembling we reached out toward our mother who wasn't paying attention. This was a common part of the trip, there was just so
many things to do.

The boy and the rabid dog
During the harsh heat, I spent time with a young teenager of a servant
(in America a servant is a housemaid) and my brother. Surendranagar was lonely, and we had no shoes, so we often
explored the surrounding areas. With the glass on the street, the young man showed us how to bind our feet with moccassins. 
One day, in an alley, three dogs appeared in the middle of the street and my brother, the young man and I were standing right
where they could see us. The dogs began to bark and they ran toward us. Typically, if a dog 
runs toward you, you would normally stand still, but my five-year-old brain couldn't comprehend that so we ran and the dogs chased us back.
Eventually I saw the dusty brown gate standing still and we couldn't open the gate, but oh, 
the dogs were getting closer, and eventually the young man pushed us through the gate. I didn't know at the time, but 
my mother told me in the days after that he had been bitten by the dog because the dog had rabies.
My mom didn't tell me any more, she ended it with that, because perhaps she didn't know what became of him, but 
she did know that he had saved us from harm. 

The topic of being saved is also hard to comprehend in the Bible. God says that we are saved from sin, and death is extinguished.
But death, being the second (and not the first death) doesn't save us from car accidents or cancer or other forms of illness that 
can cause death. So being saved is more like a reconciliation to God, rather than physically saving us from death. But the questions would still
continue to linger. Like why had God made some people's lives harder than others to get saved?

I met a young woman by the name of Grace, she was a mutual friend born with a condition that she could not walk. Through that
she has faced multiple surgeries and has led a life of a wheelchair. Yet she still shows the faith that some of us cannot understand.
I asked her how does she continue to live, even when faced with a surgery.
Grace: "Well, none of us are really "good Christians". We will all fail because we are sinful." 
Sometimes people have the capacity to deal with hard stuff, and sometimes we feel like we don't.
And sometimes we cannot deal with really hard problems. But that didn't mean we could live the rest of our lives in the victim mindset.

My Uncle's house with a car and the desires for money
In one of the more affluent areas around Gujarat was our uncle, who had a two story home and a car. Something that looked very similar to 
the US. His home was colored a beautiful blue, and in the backyard they had grass and a van in the front. 
This uncle's name was Arvind, and he had a love marriage with his wife, and two sons.

I had always wanted a suburban life, especially as a young woman. I wanted the opportunity to have opportunities, and to have a stable life with a 
family and maybe with a pet. As a child, it was hard to reconcile, that while on the outside sometimes things would seem to be ok, life
on the inside wasn't. Perhaps it was the turmoil of the constant fighting indoors, or the fact that people tend to criticize others more than
themselves. My parents, due to their divorces, and my mother's lack of job would have a hard time living in California. 
So did a couple at McDonalds as well, whose mother had been homeless. She was a nice lady, but she had two jobs, one more at Disneyland, and 
had a hard time living as the prices slowly increased. She tried to give her children what they wanted, but 
My father once told me that we don't choose to be a victim of abuse, that sometimes abuse chooses us. 
I asked people about abuse, about lives, and how could we know the future, because I wanted to have a good future, not a bad one.
But a life with a white picket fence, and a nice little home in the suburbs with a garden had always been intriguing.

I wish someone would have told me as a young woman that it was ok to feel jealousy, because it exposes our
true desires. It gives us time to know what we want. When people say that God is a jealous God, it is because He wants
us (humanity) for himself. If we really think about that, isn't it normal for a parent to feel that way about a child? I 
interviewed a man once, who said 
Jealousy is bad when it turns into envy, which is the byproduct of insecurity. Insecurity is the byproduct of fear that we aren't
good enough, or as good as others. If we feel that we aren't good enough, and we act on 
that feeling, we can end up hurting someone else or even ourselves. 
In the movie Divergent (ironically, a movie reference) the main character, Tris can use fear to her advantage, to make 
her stronger. She uses it in various ways to escape a dystopian reality. 
If we could use fear to make us stronger, even during life, then perhaps we can see jealousy in a new light. Sometimes
we will get to a certain point in life, and things will seem hopeless, but in reality they won't be.  

Anxiety and the pandemic
Fear can come from anywhere. During the first year of Covid-19 I was a contractor at a company. However, the pandemic hit during mid-March in the 
USA. At first everyone closed their doors and the governor stated that we were in a lockdown. Eventually the lockdown was lifted but during those
first few months it felt like everything was trying to make our world smaller, because I already had to live in a 1 bedroom apartment with my father
and brother. And if my world was small, I can only imagine how much worse it could become. I understood the need for the lockdown, it was because several
people were dying every day. Yet, ironically, it seemed that the more panic the world seemed to feel, the more panic grew internally in my head as well.
The pandemic had an effect on everyone. Some people who had domestic abuse situations were then locked in with their abuser.
During the middle of the pandemic, parts of the lockdown seemed to let up and people were allowed outside, but then soon, it closed down again.
With this instability and unrest, riots also broke out in parts of the US, and people began to act out against the government.

Justification of violence
We have seen so many times when a child gets hold of a weapon and hurts another child. It happens so often nowadays that a person, who feels out of control,
will want to hurt another. Usually the person who does this has to justify their cruelty to another. Most of the time, a similar enough reason will exist out 
there for violence. For example the violence seen in the capitol riot of Jan 6, 2021, shortly after Donald Trump lost the election for president, he incited
people into a rebellion.
But when is violence right? When we do the wrong thing, and we believe we are doing things for the right reason, it is often against God's will.
Morality comes from God, so if we take this stance, we are able to discern when we make mistakes. 

In foster care children, a similar unstoppable fear seems to exist. The child doesn't know who to trust, and some days their realities can shift.
Each day a child in a foster home can turn bad or good, depending on the person who controls the home. 
Nick Doorn, known as Johan and Juanito was a young man from Dana Point when he had a stroke
and couldn't....

Mrs. Hilda was an older woman who watched children at a local church. She did an event called Kids Alive, and each year,
they took care of kids on Friday nights, and tried to train them for a play on Christmas. Volunteering to help is very hard because
we don't get an immediate reward. Sometimes, we get snacks, or small gifts, but no money, and we pay in time spent. It occurred once
a year. It took true strength to continue that every day. The children were rowdy. They would throw things around
and nobody could focus. She told me that she had done it for 33 years, and during that time, most of the time she had 
been working as well and raising her children. I asked how, and she said God gives the strength t odo so.

Fifteen years ago, my mom went crying to Mrs. Hilda for advice on her marriage, which hadn't been going so well.
She told of my father and his neglecting her wants to travel and for excitement. Sometimes my father had tried to live 
his daily life, with his comings and goings to and from the pool. My father wasn't the best to her, but rather
had his own faults as well. To her, my father had neglected her. But she didn't see her own criticism to him.
In India, where she came from, things were much different. Her large family and cousins adventured together,
saw things together, people lived together and experienced daily joys together, even as neighbors.
In the United States, people live mostly separated lives, even neighbors don't socialize together as they had 
in the past. In addition, their personality differences hadn't helped. Mrs. Hilda listened to her but had a more traditional
view on the world. And in the end of the day, she couldn't help Vina, who wouldn't listen to her.

Vina's life fell apart slowly, first a day at school with the children, the next, a day at court with her husband's ex-wife. 
The ex-wife was raising a child by herself, the child of my father, and to do so, she claimed she needed money. When my mother 
complained a lady at the court told her to get a job. But saying get a job was easier said than done, because Vina had lost years
of her life taking care of her children. She tried to get jobs, she holed herself up in the room upstairs, never coming out except for
food and water, sometimes milk and peanut butter sandwiches. 

Individualism vs Community
In the Bible, Jesus said to be united as one. United as one, sharing community together. When does the price of daily life
extend past the need to help others? And sometimes, going out there, and sharing the word of God during the hard times,
actually helps us move forward from our own hard times, especially when we feel truly alone.

I met a young missionary, Ariana, who was in her early thirties through Johan as well. Ariana told me bits and pieces of her life,
though it was short she said it was important to show that light to others, and to share to
the relationship with God. Ariana became Christian from 18, but she ended up truly having a relationship at 29.
She learned during the pandemic, which was hard because Bible studies were on Zoom and she said she wanted to learn more.
She saw something different in a disciple, a woman from a different church. Eventually she got 
connected to another church, which was a completely new chapter in her life. 

When taking a look at the different world views, a pastor once said that there were only three: naturalistic, theistic, and pantheistic (many gods)
Within each one of these three world views, people had multiple different beliefs under them. The naturalistic, people would say, was a 
worldview where everything came from nothing (or perhaps the universe started from the big bang), the theistic (the universe began with God), and 
the pantheistic (many gods, all who are one, who created the universe, and everything is everything, including beliefs of reincarnation). Going 
through each one of these paths led to more questions. There was no correct answer on what to believe. But even into each different sect, people began
to add divisions between what was a belief. Sometimes, a different sect would emerge as part of each one of these three world views. 
A version of theistic and pantheism, called agnostic, is usually defined as not knowing whether there is a God or not. 
Ariana also had different views of the different denominations in Christianity. She said that people made slight differences,
and had slight changes to their beliefs to create different denominations. In reality, this is because each person deals with life differently, and wants
different things and different circumstances. However, if preaching about a gospel, any church has to follow what the Bible says (and have a basis on the
love that God displayed when he sent Christ to Earth to die for our sins). If there is no basis, any ideas beyond that would be foolish. 

Ariana and her husband weren't Christian when they were married. They had both grown up knowing about Christ,
but they hadn't accepted Christ as their personal savior. Both grew up speaking Spanish, but only Ariana could
speak both Spanish and English. Recently, after meeting a sister, she changed her whole life. 
She expressed tears when she spoke about her husband, as he still doesn't share the same faith, along with her family. 
Ariana loves her husband, as her entire family, even her own mother. I too could understand that because my own mother hadn't shared my beliefs 
for many years. She described a time of taking care of the sick and the needy "because the world doesn't show them kindness"
, where she took to the street to help the homeless in Santa Ana. Santa Ana, one of the cities in Orange County, had a drug and crime problem in the past.
Though the city has become safer, Ariana now hosts a ministry there and in a few other cities around Orange 
County, and has a dream of becoming a missionary. A dream, that for now, is possible, but for a lot of people,
it is hard to reconcile with giving and recieving. 

The topic of being saved is also hard to comprehend in the Bible. God says that we are saved from sin, and death is extinguished.
But death, being the second (and not the first death) doesn't save us from car accidents or cancer or other forms of illness that 
can cause death. So being saved is more like a reconciliation to God, rather than physically saving us from death. But the questions would still
continue to linger. Like why had God made some people's lives harder than others to get saved?
We all know it's easy to accept a good God when times are going well. But when times go badly, people start to question,
"Where is God?" Ariana told me about her encounters with questions as well.
She told me of this one time about an encounter with a lady at a local ice cream parlor. She asked the lady at the counter,
as well as a group of friends. "I looked at her and I saw a person, not just the service she was going to do, which was
sell ice cream, so I asked her how she was doing." 

Ariana also told me about a time her husband came with her to preach the gospel. Her husband had seen what she was doing, and 
he wanted to see what it was about. He was used to working hard, but couldn't find a way to accept grace in the past. They had 
spent their lives in a Catholic mindset. She said, "When Jesus comes, it's not gonna be about denomination, about helping people get to Jesus"
A Catholic typically puts more emphasis on works, while the normal Christian tends to have a lukewarm attitude toward works.
Both types are living in the flesh (either by the law, or by not seeing that God needs fruit in the world).
missionary work
on the street, preaching, pregnant sister, prayer
miscarriage
non denomination

ice cream, asked the ice cream lady at a local parlor
bad issues that happened like scamming
prayer is adding to the lord's number
pride can get in the way, we can always get more prayer
better to stay alone before with God before marriage
happiness
Sin, ministering,
man felt condemned
came after her and offered tacos - feeding the birds and the flowers
donation for speaker, little speaker, scripture to repent
brother victor, with one leg
she realize now that because in the past if she had known in

Missionary from Japan
Elizabeth, a missionary who went to Japan, described Japan's need for the gospel. 

Rebecca and Rosie Conti also knew faith. They were sisters who had once travelled around the world,
but who grew up having to take care of one another, along with their brother. The three of them 
knew God's love, but having to choose it was hard.

	Is being a vigilante a good thing? We think we are protecting something, but then we are not.
In life, we will often have good and bad. Good deeds, are fruits of the spirit. But people often tend to want revenge,
thinking it is the right thing. Where, then, is the end to revenge. Where does the fruits of pain end?
We think about storing up our treasures in heaven. If we hold a gun or a weapon and use it against others, sometimes we 
think we are protecting people. We see it everywhere. However, it takes more than just a gun to be a true hero,
and everyone knows that in their heart. Sometimes, it can take a choice to forgive, or to show mercy to someone 
who has wronged us. And in life, we will always have a hurt.

	Leslie de la Rosa, my friend from Saddleback College, was born in the Phillipines, but she also had a hard
time during life. She said her faith made her stronger, but strength cannot be fought by us alone.
Leslie's father had been abusive. And so often nowadays, we see that happening, but her mother finally got free
and moved to the United States. Abuse is so common nowadays. She said she had to work her way through school,
and had a hard time trusting people. For Leslie, she has a hard time caring about her father at all, 
but she had forgiven him and let go of the past hurts. 

	Leslie spent her life trying to cope with the pain. She sometimes reminisces over the past, dwelling on the 
thoughts that she had before, wondering why things hadn't gone differently. Sometimes she regrets the past as well, but
she knows that she cannot go back, and so at the end of the day, she knows she must let it go. Leslie once told me,
"You need to grow up." And she was right.

